Now that you saw how to read a text from file,
let us see how to write text to a file.
The pattern is almost as simple as the previous one.
First step, you need to get a BufferedWriter.
And we're going to see the pattern.
Second step, well you just write to that file through this writer,
and that's it.
So, the pattern is the following.
Suppose we have a path.
You create your writer using this factory method from the Files factory class,
passing this path as a parameter.
And then, since this writer is just a plain ordinary writer,
all you have to do is pass, for instance,
a string of characters to the write method to write it to the file.
And that's it.
It's going to work out of the box.
And then, once again, what could possibly go wrong with this pattern?
Well, there are still many things, you know,
the file that is not there that is not readable or writable,
whatever.
But the main issue you may encounter when dealing with this pattern is
an issue with flushing and closing your writer properly because if you
do not do that then you will have missing content in your file and
this is also very confusing.
And trust me, this is always very confusing.
So, let us see that.
We are going to cover that in an example directly in the IDE and see how we can deal with it.